Release 24.9.0 (#118)
NVIDIA/cloud-native-docs: gpu-operator/release-notes.rst

----

.. _v24.9.0:

24.9.0
======

.. _v24.9.0-new-features:

New Features
------------

> * Added support for the NVIDIA Data Center GPU Driver version 550.127.05.

Reviewer: Do we also mention the `535.216.01` and `565.57.01` driver versions here?

Author: My memory is that we identify the new default LTSB driver and the others are just post-release updates.

  Refer to the :ref:`GPU Operator Component Matrix`
  on the platform support page.

* Added support for the following software component versions:

    - NVIDIA Container Toolkit v1.17.0
    - NVIDIA Driver Manager for Kubernetes v0.7.0
    - NVIDIA Kubernetes Device Plugin v0.17.0
    - NVIDIA DCGM Exporter v3.3.8-3.6.0
    - NVIDIA DCGM v3.3.8-1

>     - Node Feature Discovery v0.16.5

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Node Feature Discovery v0.16.6
```

  In previous releases, the ``operator.upgradeCRD`` field was ``false``.
  This release sets the default value to ``true`` and automatically runs a Helm hook when you upgrade the Operator.
  For more information, refer to :ref:`Option 2: Automatically Upgrading CRDs Using a Helm Hook`.

* Added support for new MIG profiles with GH200 144GB HBM3e.

  * Added support for the following profiles:

    * ``1g.18gb``
    * ``1g.18gb+me``
    * ``1g.36gb``
    * ``2g.36gb``
    * ``3g.72gb``
    * ``4g.72gb``
    * ``7g.144gb``

  * Added an ``all-balanced`` profile creates the following GPU instances:

    * ``1g.18gb`` :math:`\times` 2
    * ``2g.36gb`` :math:`\times` 1
    * ``3g.72gb`` :math:`\times` 1

* Added support for KubeVirt and OpenShift Virtualization with vGPU v17.4 for A30, A100, and H100 GPUs.

* Revised roles and role-based access controls for the Operator.
  The Operator is revised to use Kubernetes controller-runtime caching that is limited to the Operator namespace and the OpenShift namespace, ``openshift``.
  The OpenShift namespace is required for the Operator to monitor for changes to image stream objects.

>   Using caching enables the Operator to use the namespace-scoped role, ``gpu-operator``, instead of a cluster role for monitoring changes to resources in the Operator namespace.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  Limiting caching to specific namespaces enables the Operator to use the namespace-scoped role, ``gpu-operator``, instead of a cluster role for monitoring changes to resources in the Operator namespace.
```

  This change follows the principle of least privilege and improves the security posture of the Operator.

.. _v24.9.0-fixed-issues:

Fixed Issues
------------

> * Fixed an issue with the GPU Driver Container and vGPU Software License Server and how host names and IP addresses are reported.

Reviewer: nit: I wouldn't phrase this as an issue. We are exposing the NODE_IP and NODE_NAME as environment variables so that the vGPU team is able to fetch this data. This change only unblocks them.

I would lean towards excluding this if possible.

Reviewer: It's more an enhancement than it is an issue

* Revised roles and role-based access controls for the Operator.
  The Operator is revised to use Kubernetes controller-runtime caching that is limited to the Operator namespace and the OpenShift namespace, ``openshift``.
  The OpenShift namespace is required for the Operator to monitor for changes to image stream objects.
  Limiting caching to specific namespaces enables the Operator to use the namespace-scoped role, ``gpu-operator``, instead of a cluster role for monitoring changes to resources in the Operator namespace.
  This change follows the principle of least privilege and improves the security posture of the Operator.

> * Enhanced the GPU Driver Container to set the ``NODE_NAME`` environment variable from the node host name and the ``NODE_IP`` environment variable from the node host IP address.

Reviewer: Thank you @mikemckiernan !
